hello there my name is Jay in this live
class I'm going to be your IELTS
examiner what we're going to do is this
we're going to do a full test simulation
for IELTS speaking I'm not an IELTS
examiner but I have actually taken the
IELTS before and I did get a 9 in IELTS
speaking which what do you do I'm a
native speaker it's not that fantastic
however while I was taking this test I
had a lot of insight into how you can
get a high band score that's what we're
going to do today so I'm going to test
you I'm also going to show you seek nuts
secret strategies they're not secret
they're not secret wrong they're
available and they're good they're
powerful we created them here at e2
language comm so let's get started
thinking about this just a quick
overview of IELTS speaking well
Cambridge University or the IELTS say
that it's called interview long turn and
discussion but this is a poor choice of
words really what you're doing on test
day is this part one you a small talk
part two you're going to tell three
stories using a super strategy part
three you're going to discuss big ideas
this is a better way to look at how to
do IELTS speaking first of all I want to
talk to you about meeting the examiner
because well let's face it IELTS
speaking is scary it's terrifying even
when I did IELTS speaking I had nothing
to lose I was just doing it for the
experience of taking the test and yet I
became really nervous so let's think
about this and let's think about our
nervousness because it's important first
of all you have to understand you can't
beg don't beg don't beg even if you
desperately need that six point five or
that eight the IELTS examiner has a set
of rules and he or she can't bend those
rules for you so just what you need to
do is you need to have integrity
you need to have integrity
which means you need to be strong you
need to be confident and you also need
to bring the passport by the way the
IELTS examiner
he or she they eat you you're gonna walk
down a corridor sit in a classroom the
IELTS exam it will ask for a very simple
question what is your full name and this
I don't think is actually great and
they're just asking for details they'll
ask also ask you can I please see your
ID so that's fine you hand over your
passport passport and away you go
just give me one second up needs I've
just realized I don't have my drawing
tool I need my drawing tool where's my
drawing tool applications yes I need
this thing so I can draw on the screen
do to do yes I need that
and I went red and I want it to be about
so thick cool that's good all right
we're back
cool right part 1 part 1 is small talk
and it's pretty simple all you have to
do really is just elaborate which means
extend the length of your answers in
other words don't just give short
answers to these questions it's actually
a great opportunity to make a good first
impression with the IELTS examiner so
what do I mean by that I mean when the
examiner asked you a dead simple
question like where are you from
don't just say Nepal or India or the
Netherlands you want to give it a little
bit more specific information extend the
length of your answers give some
adjectives maybe some adverbs like this
and say something like well originally
I'm from a small coastal town on the
great ocean road but currently I am
living in Melbourne in the big city and
it's very different where I grew up for
10 seconds and what have I done I've
used a number of different verb tenses
some adjectives and adverbs and right
from the get-go the examiners thinking
oh okay this person's good so another
one do you work or study I study
boring you haven't used any verb to use
to words and anyone could basically say
that sentence so what you could say is
yes currently I'm doing my master's
degree in applied linguistics from the
University of Melbourne it's quite an
interesting course though I wish
sometimes I had more free time so you're
extending a little bit
you're elaborating a little bit and and
and that's that let's do it I just want
you to say one sentence let's go back to
this one here so I'm gonna ask you where
are you from just in 10 seconds tell me
so where are you from
fine good and I'm gonna ask you this one
do you work with this study or deal work
fine ten seconds is all you need there
right now what's going to happen is
there's going to be a bit of a
transition from stead simple small talk
questions and all of a sudden the
examiners gonna ask you something that
well it didn't follow on from the
previous questions for example when I
did mine the examiner looked at me and
said Jay do you like going to the cinema
I thought what why are you talking about
the cinema that's a weird question to
ask but this is what will happen so it
goes from where you're from and your
work with study to what's your favorite
movie something crazy like that so same
thing just in 15 seconds I want you to
answer this question what sort of
accommodation what sort of accommodation
do you live in
you
five
or three to one
cool fine so for me I would say well
interestingly I've just moved in with my
girlfriend into a one-bedroom apartment
just down near the river in Melbourne
it's not too far from here it's an old
building I like it Alliance very
beautiful and the good thing is has
cheap rent cool
lots of adjectives lots of verbs lots of
beautiful words nice sentences not too
complex though this is where it starts
to get tricky this is part two you need
to tap well the IELTS people call this
the long turn and they expect you to
speak for two minutes on one topic and
that makes it not only hard a
nerve-racking it's almost impossible to
talk about a mundane topic like what's
your favorite book for two minutes can
you imagine that is tough seriously
tough what most ion's candidates do and
this is the reason why they don't get
good scores is they choose one story one
book and they talk about it for about 35
seconds and there's still a minute and a
half left and they've run out of ideas
so what they might do is they just tell
the same story again and again and again
three times and the best you'll get for
that is probably an IELTS six if you
really want to extend yourself you need
to use a good strategy this is what we
call PPF just before I get to PPF just
let me explain what happens here so what
will happen is the examiner will give
you a task card right like this I will
hand you some a piece of paper and say I
want you to talk for two minutes on this
topic here and you will take the task
card and you look at it you'll have no
idea what it's about you'll have then
you'll have one minute to prepare and
then you have to talk for up to two
minutes on this task card yeah it's kind
of hard it's kind of hard this is what
the task card might look like for
example
I hand you something like this it says
talk about a law you believe is
important you should say which law it is
why people follow it whether people
break it and explain why you think it's
important not easy right
not easy plus you're nervous you're
sitting there and you kind of think
you're sweating you're cold you're
thinking oh god what am I going to do
you need a strategy absolutely need a
strategy so let's think about this
strategy we call it PPF a t2 language
what that means is past present future
in fact what you're going to do is tell
three stories you're going to look at
this task card and you're going to tell
a past story about it you're also going
to tell a present story and you're going
to tell a future story you're going to
tell three stories PP if this makes it
so much easier but I see a lot of you
saying
but it says I'll or you're thinking Jay
what are you doing you're gonna make me
fail because that task card says talk
about aa law one law I'm not doing this
I'm going to fail
well you're not and I'll tell you why
you're not going to fail this thing here
is what is called the IELTS criteria
Lumi why can I remove that look there we
go IELTS criteria or the band
descriptors this isn't this is an IELTS
nine okay there are three sorry four
things one two three four things that
the IELTS examiner listens for while
you're speaking let's start with number
four this is pronunciation fine that's
the clarity of your speech number three
this is grammar this means not just are
you accurate but how much grammar do you
have to express what you want to say
number two they call lexical resource
that what that really means is just
vocabulary do you have the words to fit
into those grammatical structures do you
have lots of adjectives do you have lots
of nouns lots of verbs and can you
actually put those verbs into the
correct tense can you use the right
prepositions etc there's actually two
related to number one there's first of
all there's coherence coherence and that
means that you have a well-structured
what that really means is structure a
good structure to your story and there's
one here called fluency which is related
which means basically how smoothly and
effortlessly help easily you can speak
now I don't know about you but there's
nothing here there is nothing here and
these are the same criteria that the
examiners used this is what the
examiners used to grade you there's
nothing here about speaking on topic
nothing about speaking on topic you are
it's not like the essay in writing task
1 & 2 if you write off topic your score
will go down but for speaking the task
card is just a guide it's just a guide
you do not have to use it exactly now
just to prove this what I did recently
was I emailed an IELTS examiner and I
asked this person who I'm going to keep
secret I said excuse me mr. IELTS
examiner is it ok if somebody speaks off
topic a little bit in their exam because
I have a fabulous strategy that makes
them get higher scores and this is what
he said he said this quote the speaking
questions are not like the writing and
being a little tangential that means
going off-topic a little bit
is fine the candidates are marked
completely according to the descriptors
these things here this is how you're
marked and the public version is
basically blah blah blah it's the same
one that the examiners use having said
that if a candidate started talking
about their day at the seaside instead
or answered every question with a
completely different topic then we might
start to judge their vocabularies what
wide enough bla bla bla bla bla
there's always someone who decides to
memorize a Hollywood script and then
recite it word-for-word whatever the
question which might lose them plenty of
grammar and accuracy marks as well
basically what he's saying is telling
the three stories is absolutely fine
what's not fine is memorizing something
completely different because if I ask
you to talk about law and you start
talking about your favorite food you're
going to lose a lot of points but if I
ask you about law and you tell me three
stories instead of one that is
absolutely fine cool now let's work out
how to do it because you get one minute
preparation time before you have to
speak and this is really critical time
critical time all you have to do look
let me tell you what happened to me
actually being the English teacher and
IELTS expert that I am I basically sat
there for one minute and lost my mind I
just stared at this task card I had the
pen in my hand and I just for one minute
thought what the hell am I gonna speak
about I wish I used this strategy I wish
I used this strategy we would have made
my life a lot easier instead what I
could have done which would have made it
so much easier and so much better was I
could have just written down three words
really to jog my memory PPF the past
present future that's when I need to
write down on my piece of paper while I
prepare then under each of the
I need to just remind myself of the
story I'm going to tell so when I look
at this task card about a law well the
first thing that came back to me
actually was a past story about when I
lived in Indonesia and they passed a new
laws for people to wear motorcycle
helmets great so I can what law is it
why people follow it whether people
break it and why I think it's important
right I've got one I know that one the
present story well excellent because I
recently got a fine from the police
about a law that I think is not well I
don't think it's very cool it's not a
good law and the future one well I had
to think of one in the future law that
I'm going to talk about is no helmets
for bicycles fine the thing is here with
that future law do I really believe it
no you also should realize while you're
doing IELTS nobody likes the line I
don't think people should lie in society
I think lies are terrible I think
honesty is beautiful but you know I'm
speaking it doesn't matter this is
outside of normal society this is you're
sitting there with the examiner you're
trying to get a high score
it's a language test it's not an honesty
test so you can not you can
tell not the truth you can bend the
truth
you can tell white lies it's absolutely
fine so for the future line I'm going to
tell a bit of a lie I don't believe it
but I'm going to say it now we need an
introductory sentence because it's nice
to memorize one sentence so we know how
to start our talk well you should start
like this today I would like to talk
about three topics well what are the
topics it depends on your task card
today I would like to talk about three
laws or three books or three influential
people
so you just memorize that phrase today I
would like to talk about three whatever
the task card says now we're going to
move into our past story I'm going to
get you to do this in a minute by the
way I just want to show you my first and
then you can do yours so this is my past
story and I look at my notes and I'm
going to say this I said when I was
about 20 years old I lived in job
Jakarta in Indonesia it's a wonderful
city anyway while I was there the
government brought in a new law that
people had to wear helmets on their
motorcycles prior to that there was no
law against riding a motorcycle without
a helmet it was really interesting
witnessing the law change overnight
people followed the law I think simply
because they didn't want to be fined for
riding without a helmet I don't think
that people broke the law after that
because it became quite apparent that
riding with a helmet on a scooter or
motorbike is a lot safer so I've talked
about a law I've talked about which law
it is talked about why people followed
it here whether people broke it here I
didn't talk about that and why it's
important well I actually kind of did I
yes here down here I talked about that
why is it good to use three different
stories well in English as you know verb
tenses refer to a past present or future
so one of the main things that you're
doing here by talking about a past story
present story in a future story is that
you're you
an amazing variety of grammar to tell
your stories plus it's just interesting
for the examiner they sit there all day
and they're bored out of their brains
and you're gonna sit there and say you
know what examiner I'm gonna tell you
three great stories not just one what
about the past what about the prison
what about the future and all of these
stories we'll use different verb tenses
and so you're gonna think I'm great
because my language is brilliant let me
show you some of these verbs for example
when I when I was I lived while I was
brought had was uh people followed
[Music]
didn't there's a- fine there's a present
one that's fine i can mix prison and
past that doesn't matter but you can see
all of these different all of these past
tense verbs and when we move into the
present tense story you're going to see
some present tense verbs and in the
future stories and future verbs present
story recently i have been in trouble
with the law with what i think is a
terrible law about a month ago I was
riding my scooter and I had my feet off
the pigs a policeman pulled me over and
find me two hundred and thirty three
dollars which I was really annoyed at I
think some laws should not be laws with
fines but just warnings I don't think
that what I was doing was dangerous
towards me or anyone else I understand
why most laws exist but there are some
with the police who just warn you and
that's that paying two hundred dollars
for a minor infringement is really not
the best use of police officers time
although I understand that they must
enforce the law all of a sudden I've
used these different verbs have been
think it's present tense now here I've
got a few past tense ones that's fine
I'm telling a little story inside the
story that's okay but then I'm back to
present tense verbs
I don't think fine fine fine there's a
past tense one that's fine
I understand present tense should warn
there's a present tense one ears I've
gone from was two ears I understand so
there's my present tense verbs cool
right that's telling a past story and a
present story is going to take about it
makes it so much easier because you'll
use about a minute a minute and a half
of your time more like a minute and a
half so you're going to have a little
bit of time at the end usually it'll be
less than the past and present story to
tell your future story that's okay keep
your future story short that's fine the
future story is important because not
only will you use future tense verbs but
you will also use modal verbs and
subjunctive like hypothetical phrases
and this is the grammar that gets you
towards the IELTS nine score let me show
you what I mean I'm still talking about
law and I tell a future story in the
future I would like to see a change in
the law so people can ride bicycles
without helmets bicycles are far less
dangerous than motorcycles so I think
helmets should be optional it should be
optional nice modal verbs it would be
nice to see people right around
melbourne without helmets like they do
in some parts of europe it would make
riding bicycles far less cumbersome and
just all-around more enjoyable and
that's about two minutes and by this
stage the examiners thinking okay great
that's what i want to hear so again why
IELTS knowing what we've seen we've seen
why now I want you to try this method
and we're going to look at the same task
card so I'm gonna give you one minute to
prepare and think of three different
stories to do with the law your
one-minute preparation time starts now
you
just going to check the chat 40 seconds
left
cool thirty seconds left
think of those three different stories
take a deep breath and relax
you
okay I wanted to look at me I'm the
IELTS examiner every 30 seconds I'm just
gonna put up my hands and mention it but
now I want you to tell me three great
stories about that prompt card three
different types of thirds or three verb
tenses your two minutes starts now
you
that's 30 seconds
that's one minute you have one minute
left
you
it's 1 minute and 30 you have 30 seconds
left
you
okay and stop even if you hadn't
finished if you're still talking the
IELTS examiner will stop you this is not
a bad thing it just means you've reached
two minutes don't think that you've done
something wrong it's great that you've
reached two minutes now I am guessing
that a lot of you finished a lot earlier
and you probably finished your first
story in about 15 seconds you need to
practice this if you need help do go to
e to language doc
because we want tutorials with expert
teachers if you need some serious help
with your speaking do go to the website
sign up to one of the packages and take
some tutorials we also give you feedback
on your speaking through the website as
well as lots of practice material and
other strategies all right now one thing
you may have noticed that I was doing I
was writing stuff down I wasn't really
but sometimes the examiners will look at
you and they will do that what are they
writing down well they're referring back
to the criteria that we saw before
they're thinking about while you're
speaking they're thinking okay how well
structured how well structured is this
person's speech they're thinking how
fluent is this person how smoothly are
they speaking are they hesitating they
hesitantly searching for words or the
words just appearing immediately they're
also thinking okay is this person does
this person have good vocabulary
are they descriptive do they have good
adjectives would nouns with verbs and
with that are you using those verb
tenses accurately not only that but
here's the word range are using past
present and future verbs as well as
prepositions and adverbs and stuff like
that pronunciation this is the big one
are you speaking clearly are you would
you be easily understood by me if you
were to speak to me would your words
just immediately make meaning in my
brain or do I have to sort of think huh
what was that word Oh banana ah I think
I know what she's saying right so where
did you speak clearly cool well then I
probably should have showed you this
before you did that actually anyway
let's look at this here's how you should
start we we we looked at the
introductory sentence today I would love
look today I would like to talk about
three laws three books three people
three actors three movies whatever
there's your introductory sentence now
to get you thinking
in the past you used this phrase here in
the past I lived in Indonesia or when I
was young I lived in Indonesia and the
laws there were really interesting
present currently recently right now
this will make you go present tense verb
you want to go present tense verb here
you want to go past tense verb and it's
this phrase that'll make your verbs
change recently will make you turn into
I have present perfect I have be
thinking about right now I am in prison
I don't know about that future in the
future will would so use these little
phrases to start your three different
stories because they basically make the
right verbs appear very clever right be
cool
right now you're up to the third section
by this stage you're feeling pretty good
you've got your talk over and done with
you've told three great stories the
Adrenaline's starting to sort of wear
off so you can sort of focus a bit more
now you have to have a philosophical
discussion with the examiner this
examiner does not want to hear boring
ideas this examiner is going to ask you
some questions
and this examiner wants you to give
interesting philosophical deep answers
to these questions you're going to have
to draw upon your own experience of
reading and watching movies on your
university degree or whatever it is you
need to discuss big ideas discuss big
ideas not small ideas not boring you
want big so the examiner will now ask
you a question related to your task card
so it's going to follow on from law or
influential people or whatever
is so my question is this what law
should apply to all countries and you
have to think on the spot and you just
have to answer the content excuse me the
content of what you say is not so
important even if you say something
really stupid it's okay just stay calm
and use good grammar use good vocabulary
the IELTS examiner won't mark you down
for having a silly idea but you might
say something like I think all horses
should never be used in cities whatever
something crazy will pop into your mind
don't be embarrassed it's not about that
so let me ask you this question and I
want you to speak for about let's say 20
seconds okay what law wash should apply
okay pretty
you
okay that's 20 seconds fine so you want
to say something like listen I think
there are universal laws that should be
applied especially ones that protect
children I think children are the most
important things in this world and
they're so innocent and I think it is
only law and order that can protect
children from things like starvation or
abuse or slave labor or something like
that I saw a documentary recently and it
was talking about these children working
in factories and I think that is the
sort of thing that should be outlawed
that should be bad it shouldn't be you
shouldn't be able to use children in
slave labor whatever I just made that up
by the way I never saw a documentary
about that it's beside the point I'm
just speaking and trying to engage the
examiner what is the view of lawyers
in your country
you
okay and you can stop now if you didn't
understand me when I said what is the
view of lawyers in your country you can
say sorry can you repeat that please and
what I will do is the examiner you will
not lose points I will just rephrase the
question I'll say what do people think
of lawyers in your country so for me I'd
say Oh lawyers well it's true that
lawyers have a bad name probably because
they get paid so much money but to be
honest I think they do a very good thing
for society
so it's probably
believe that people are lawyers wages
rather than thinking that they're
actually bad people of course sometimes
they charge too much for the types of
work that they do but then again they do
do pro bono work for people who are poor
and in needs so I guess the view of
lawyers in society is mixed in my
country I'm just free-flowing and
thinking about I'm using my knowledge
and thoughts that I've had in the past
to answer these questions cool that my
friends is the end of that I hope that
presentation was helpful if you do need
help do check out the website go to e to
language comm we also offer writing help
which is just as good as this using
strategies and structures that work
right now though I'm gonna go to Q&A if
you have any questions please type them
into the chat Julia J could you please
give your opinion about what is better
to buy an IELTS book aiming for
vocabulary night or to buy a book for
general IELTS targeting vote
I had to academic will have a slightly
different type of vocabulary but not
really about who I'm just guessing but
about 2% of the words will be academic
words more scientific words you should
make sure that you have a good basic
vocabulary that applies to IELTS general
and then if you're doing academic you
should search google or go to our
website for an academic word list that
will help you as well it's a good
question devinder can we discuss three
different laws in PPP yes and we did
remember I talked about the Indonesian
law I talked about my recent fine and
run-in with the law then I talked about
a future law of bicycle said that yes
that's what PPP is sorry people you have
three different things three different
stories if you're on YouTube by the way
please click like I would appreciate
that and leave a comment if you don't
mind
what if I don't know much about my topic
says richer
well again you have to talk about the
topic you can talk off topic slightly so
you're just going to have to make do
with what you can use that one minute
preparation time just to think of those
three stories then you're freestyling
from there Davina I would like to talk
about
okay that's fine Prasanna will may be
any deduction in points if I continue
and stop me at the two minutes no you're
not supposed to finish on time you have
no idea how long two minutes is because
you're just talking the IELTS examiner
said Jay stop there and you say okay no
problem
[Music]
cool
sumit how to be more confident in our
conversation
practice feedback that's critical
improve get good
[Music]
okay Russell says in case I
misunderstand the question is it okay if
I answer it No if you misunderstand the
question ask the examiner to repeat the
question so you can understand it don't
start answering the question off topic
that's not good
say sorry can you explain that again
more clearly please and the examiner
will explain it to you again
dinesh the embellished and digress
method is the same for actually I think
PPF is better than the digress but
embellishing your stories is fine that
applies to all do you think the objects
prepare according to which country that
I can't understand that the do they
examine it I think what you're trying to
say is is that the same is I out
speaking the same in all countries yes
it's standardized across across
countries
Susan while talking about part two shall
we speak all three tenses or only speak
a single tense well just use whatever
tense is appropriate for that thought
okay so the past present future is just
a guideline to give you some used
different tenses but in my present story
for example I use past tense that's fine
and in my past story I used a bit of
present tense that's fine so it's not
strict categories it's just a guideline
for using different tenses it's me that
J if what I have no clue about the topic
at all
okay so Smith has asked if the examiner
asks a question
you better bears in your country if what
they just said is it better just to say
sorry I don't understand you or just
start talking just start talking doesn't
matter just it's not kind of
contradicted what I said before but if
if you don't quite understand ask them
to repeat and then talk but if you ask
them to repeat and you still don't
understand
then just say anything joy will they
lose marks if I do not finish my three
stories no but you probably you might
lose marks but you probably get better
marks if you do fit in that future story
at the end tundra if my English level is
average one of the other ways to improve
no this is a language test
strannix law but only if you have
grammar and vocabulary there's nothing
you can do if your language is not there
this is a language test that's why you
should sign up to eat to get some help
start building those fundamental skills
and mmm fracture what if we get lost
somewhere and forget what question was
about yeah you can ask you can say sorry
I'm can you repeat the question again
that's fine ah assume it what should be
the expression in the face in front of
them and just if you're nervous you'll
know that's just e here's the thing with
anxiety and test taking people tend to
fight anxiety and they tend
anxious I think wishing that you're not
anxious makes the anxiety worse
accepting that you're anxious and going
you know what
I'm anxious my hands are shaking a bit
my voice is quivering accept it and see
it as an exciting thing
not as a terrifying thing I learn a good
phrase once and it's said that
courage courage is the thrilling aspect
of fear courage is the thrilling aspect
of fear all fear has an exciting part to
it
find the exciting part of the fear don't
worry if you make mistakes and your
hands shake and you and you whatever
that that's not what it's about Addie
it's fine this is language it's tough
it's messy actually what's the
difference between general arts and
academic arts is it depending for
tougher level yes
IELTS academic is slightly more
difficult for writing list and reading
listening and speaking are the same
feel the fiercest persona and do it
anyway yeah like that fee on the fear
it's good it's good for you makes you
think more clearly sometimes if you
accept it I think it makes you feel more
clear that think more clearly
ah is it possible to ask for
during the Tucker no you cannot I'm just
gonna check it out what's happening on
YouTube by the way if you're on YouTube
still out there do leave a comment and
give a thumbs up cool I better leave you
guys to it
I better go and prepare for my next
webinar thank you very much for coming
along I appreciate it I hope this helped
and do check out the website if you need
extra help to Lou
you